PHYSCOLO.DOC

PhysColo version 2.0 and its source code are copyright (c) 1992, 1993
by Raja Thiagarajan and Peter Nielsen. However, you may use them for
any non-commercial purpose.

To run the program, simply type "physcolo" at an OS/2 prompt. The
program requires the Palette Manager in order to work properly. If you
run the program and its title reads "Physical Color Viewer," then the
colors you see are the physical ones on your screen. If the word
"Physical" is missing from the title, then the Palette Manager is NOT
available in your current screen mode. You will see color bars
representing the CLR_* constants at the left; I don't know what the
rest of the window will show.

The program will display either as many onscreen colors as you have
or 256, whichever is LESS.

The primary goal of earlier versions of this program was to demonstrate
how to use the Palette Manager to access the physical screen colors in
a device-independent way. In writing the code, I strived for maximum
clarity rather than clever hacks. However, since I've documented this
matter in my "Unofficial Guide to the Palette Manager" article, and
since most people seem to use PhysColo itself rather than study its
source code, this version puts a slightly greater emphasis on speed
rather than clarity.

NOTE: Previous versions of this program had a dangerous bug!
Specifically, when I queried for the existence of Palette Manager, I
used -- and did not release -- a handle to the screen PS. Under OS/2
2.0, this was harmless. Under 2.1, it can cause screen corruption,
requiring you to reboot the system. PLEASE DO NOT USE VERSIONS OF
PHYSCOLO PRIOR TO THIS ONE!

The program should compile equally well under IBM C Set/2 (or CSet++)
and Watcom C 386 9.0 (or greater). If you have to modify it to compile
under other C compilers for OS/2 2.0, I'd appreciate knowing about it.
Of course, the program cannot be compiled for OS/2 1.x because Palette
Manager is a 2.x feature.

If you have any questions or comments, contact me at

   sthiagar@nickel.ucs.indiana.edu (internet)

Peter Nielsen did all the hard work to speed this program up under OS/2
2.1. He can be reached at

   pnielsen@finabo.abo.fi.

Raja Thiagarajan
(sthiagar@bronze.ucs.indiana.edu)
